In the last lecture, we requested permission to send notifications,
now I want to display one. For this,
I'll add a new function which I'll name display confirm notification because I want to confirm that
we've got permission. Now in there,
I will use the simplest way of showing a notification to start with and we'll later show you how you use
service workers and how you can configure your notification.
So first of all, let's execute this method in our else block here
once we got permission and to show a new notification, all we have to do is call new notification and
then pass a title for the notification, like successfully subscribed, something like that.
That's the most basic form and this will already show a notification on our machine
and keep in mind, notification does not mean a Javascript alert or something like that,
it will be a real system notification, really showing up like all other system notifications
we may get on our device.
Now let's see this in action.
I'll go back to the application and again under the application,
I'll clear the storage to quickly fetch my updated Javascript code, reload the page once to really fetch
it and then click enable notifications again.
Now I won't be asked for permission again because I already granted it
but you see user choice granted
and on a separate screen, I got this notification.
Unfortunately, you can't show notifications on external monitors, which is why I can't show it here when
recording since I'm recording on external monitor but I copied in a screenshot of what I saw on my other screen.
So this is the notification we got
and you should have gotten the same just by calling new notification.
Now just new notification like this of course is a bit boring,
so you can pass options to it.
So I'll create a new Javascript variable, I'll name it options and it will be a Javascript object.
Of course you could also directly pass it to new notification as a second argument,
in this case I'll just pass the options variable,
again you could of course start directly pass that object. Here there are various options you can set
and I'll dive into them in the next lectures.
One important option I want to show right away is the body option because right now as you could see
on this screenshot on the notification you got, we only had a title, this title.
Now if you also want to show more text than just a title, that would be the body and there we could say
you've successfully subscribed to our notification service, something like that.
Now this alone, setting up the body and passing this options object to the constructor will display
more than just a title. Back in the application if I fetch the updated code by again clearing my data,
my storage and reloading, if I now click this enable notifications button again,
now I get a new notification on my other screen, this one
and there you see I also got some text.
So these are now my notifications in their most basic form. In the next lecture,
I'll move on and show you how you show them by using the service worker,
you can use the same options there and then I'll also dive into the other options you can set up to also
show an image and stuff like that.